What is S3 Lifecycle?
Amazon S3 Lifecycle policies automate transitioning and expiring objects to optimize storage costs by defining rules for managing object lifecycles.

Key Features
Transition Actions: Move objects between storage classes based on access patterns and cost.

Common transitions:
Standard → Standard-IA → Glacier/Deep Archive.
Example: Move objects older than 30 days to Glacier.
Expiration Actions: Permanently delete objects after a specific period.

Example: Delete objects older than 365 days.
Versioning Support: Apply lifecycle rules to both current and previous versions of objects in versioned buckets.

Multipart Upload Cleanup: Automatically delete incomplete multipart uploads after a specified number of days.

S3 Storage Classes in Lifecycle
S3 Standard: Frequent access; higher cost.
S3 Intelligent-Tiering: Automatically adjusts tiers based on access.
S3 Standard-IA (Infrequent Access): Lower cost; higher retrieval fees.
S3 One Zone-IA: Infrequent access; data stored in one zone.
S3 Glacier: Long-term archive; slower access.
S3 Glacier Deep Archive: Lowest cost; retrieval within hours.
Components of Lifecycle Policy
Rules:
A policy can have multiple rules for different object prefixes or tags.
Conditions:
Specify when actions occur, based on:
Object age: Days after creation.
Tags: Specific tags for filtering objects.
Actions:
Transition: Move to a different storage class.
Expiration: Delete objects.
Abort Incomplete Multipart Uploads.
Example Lifecycle Rule
json
Copy code
{
  "Rules": [
    {
      "ID": "TransitionToIAAndGlacier",
      "Filter": { "Prefix": "logs/" },
      "Status": "Enabled",
      "Transitions": [
        { "Days": 30, "StorageClass": "STANDARD_IA" },
        { "Days": 365, "StorageClass": "GLACIER" }
      ],
      "Expiration": { "Days": 730 }
    }
  ]
}
Explanation:

Move objects in the logs/ prefix to Standard-IA after 30 days.
Move to Glacier after 365 days.
Expire after 730 days.
Benefits
Reduces storage costs.
Automates data management.
Ensures compliance with retention policies.
